docs: document nearby selection for basic variables in move selector reference (#2362)
TimefoldAI/timefold-solver: docs/src/modules/ROOT/pages/optimization-algorithms/move-selector-reference.adoc

----
====

> In a nutshell, the `Origin_` type follows the selector that is mimicked by the `nearbySelection` configuration,

Reviewer: The paragraph can be simplified. I was thinking of something like this:

```
In a nutshell, when nearby selection is applied, the `Origin_` and `Destination_` types are determined by the relevant selectors within the `nearbySelection` configuration. For a basic variable, `Origin_` is defined by the planning entity of the nearby definition, while `Destination_` can be either a planning value or a planning entity. As for a list variable, `Origin_` is always a planning value (for example `Customer`),
but `Destination_` can be either a planning value or a planning entity.
That means that in VRP the distance meter must be able to handle both `Customer` and `Vehicle` as the `Destination_` argument:
```

involving the generation of the distance matrix and sorting operations without taking advantage of the feature.
====

> ==== Nearby selection with a basic variable

Reviewer: Please add a section ID so it can be referenced in the introduction paragraph when mentioning the basic variables.

To quickly configure nearby selection for a solution that only uses basic variables,
add `nearbyDistanceMeterClass` element to your configuration file.
The following enables nearby selection with a basic variable
for the local search:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<solver xmlns="https://timefold.ai/xsd/solver">
    ...
    <nearbyDistanceMeterClass>org.acme.schooltimetabling.domain.solver.nearby.LectureNearbyDistanceMeter</nearbyDistanceMeterClass>
    ...
</solver>
----

By default, the following move selectors are included:
xref:optimization-algorithms/move-selector-reference.adoc#changeMoveSelector[Change],
xref:optimization-algorithms/move-selector-reference.adoc#swapMoveSelector[Swap],
Change with Nearby,
and Swap with Nearby.

> For a model that mixes basic and list variables,

Reviewer: Please add the following paragraph as an `[IMPORTANT]` block.

configure nearby selection for basic-variable move selectors explicitly.

===== Advanced configuration for local search

To customize the move selectors,
add a `nearbySelection` element in the `valueSelector` of a `changeMoveSelector`
or in the `secondaryEntitySelector` of a `swapMoveSelector`,
and use xref:optimization-algorithms/move-selector-reference.adoc#mimicSelection[mimic selection]

> to specify which entity should be the origin of the distance calculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to specify which entity should be nearby the selection.
```

For a `changeMoveSelector`,

> `Origin_` is the entity selected by the mimicking `entitySelector`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Origin_` is the entity selected
```

> and `Destination_` is the planning value selected by the `valueSelector`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and `Destination_` is the nearby planning value selected by the `valueSelector`.
```

For a `swapMoveSelector`,

> `Origin_` is the entity selected by the mimicking `entitySelector`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both `Origin_` and `Destination_` are planning entities. 
```

> and `Destination_` is the other planning entity selected by the `secondaryEntitySelector`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Destination_` is determined by the configuration setting `secondaryEntitySelector`. 
```

> If one distance meter is reused for both selectors,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> its `Destination_` type must accept both destination types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
    <unionMoveSelector>
      <changeMoveSelector>
        <entitySelector id="entitySelector1"/>
        <valueSelector variableName="room">
          <nearbySelection>
            <originEntitySelector mimicSelectorRef="entitySelector1"/>
            <nearbyDistanceMeterClass>org.acme.schooltimetabling.domain.solver.nearby.LectureNearbyDistanceMeter</nearbyDistanceMeterClass>
          </nearbySelection>
        </valueSelector>
      </changeMoveSelector>
      <swapMoveSelector>
        <entitySelector id="entitySelector2"/>
        <secondaryEntitySelector>
          <nearbySelection>
            <originEntitySelector mimicSelectorRef="entitySelector2"/>
            <nearbyDistanceMeterClass>org.acme.schooltimetabling.domain.solver.nearby.LectureNearbyDistanceMeter</nearbyDistanceMeterClass>
          </nearbySelection>
        </secondaryEntitySelector>

>         <variableNameIncludes>

Reviewer: Let's simplify the example by removing the node  `variableNameIncludes`.

          <variableNameInclude>room</variableNameInclude>
        </variableNameIncludes>
      </swapMoveSelector>
    </unionMoveSelector>
----

> ==== Nearby selection with a list variable

Reviewer: Please add a section ID so it can be referenced in the introduction paragraph when mentioning the list variables.
